Ground Forces Test Range. Player controlled tank against all player controllable ground vehicles as targets. The initial description is up to date with 2.11, but see the version notes for the rest.

<livecut>

Hi everyone.

Included in the ".zip" file are one mission for each nation with ground forces currently. In each mission, I've laid in a matrix all ground vehicles found in the tech tree, including the non limited premiums. They don't shoot you. You control a starter tank from each nation. I tried to add all possible shells and artillery strike when possible.

The vehicles are more spaced than in the screenshot. I've used the Lancaster's Cookies to determine a distance that would avoid a light vehicle from being destroyed by being close to another light vehicle being bombed. I've set the distance to 200 m (100 m radius). Some of the vehicle's names are bugged, but this must be on War Thunder's end.

I tried to make a mission with all three tech trees at once (when it was only USSR, Germany and US). My computer lagged on minimum settings. Not recommended.

I've also included a trigger for easier testing. It reloads your tank every second.

You need to have my Flatlands map installed (http://live.warthunder.com/post/204968/en/).

You can use this mission and change things however you want, but please be kind and mention me if you do. If you find that there's a vehicle which is different from the vehicle that occupies that position in the tech tree, please inform me and I'll fix it.

Good testing!

PS.: I actually had this ready a few days back and only now I've learned that you can play as ground forces. If you want to edit this and enable that before I do, feel free.

PPS.: I don't know why, but it's crashing for ground forces after a few seconds. I'll think on something.

After 1.53: Since the E-100 is a limited time vehicle, I don't know it's position in the tree, so I placed it before the Maus, as they were developed at the same time, have the same turret and it's smaller than the Maus. There is no UK plane with 100 lb bombs, so I used the Swordfish with 250 lb bombs. Previously, I wanted the Il-28's 3 ton bomb to check if the spacing is good, but now I'm (slowly) working on the Pe-8 and it's 5 ton bomb.

After 1.55: Spacing increased due to tests with FEB-5000. If someone tells me where the RBT-5 goes, I'll add it.

After 1.59: Something changed regarding UK's premiums, including one vehicle that was present in the 1.57 version of this mission but no longer appears in the game. I've left it in a position I feel is rational.

After 1.61: I've decided to include all the vehicles that can be selected in the CDK. I've placed the vehicles that are not in the Tech Trees and those I don't know where they go at an extra column in the right, in alphabetical order. Some vehicles only appear in the Tech Tree when you own them. I'll add them to their appropriate places once I learn where it is. If you can contribute, please do so. I've just kept the E-100 at the same place than before because I forgot about moving it. In the next update, I'll move it to the extra column, unless I learn where it goes before that.

After 1.65: Banzai! Japan is finally here! Also, Ansel screenshots (I intend to keep them up to date now, as the automation tools I built are about as automated as it gets)!

After 1.67: Couldn't update this in time. Thanks, Master's degree!

After 1.69: My flatlands map have flooded for some reason. I'll be a long time before I can take a look into it. Doesn't keep planes from landing, though.

After 1.71: Had to change some things in the Ground Forces Attack Range mission, so to standardize I made these changes here too.

After 1.73: Italy added. For its screenshot, I used the same algorithm as for the other ones. Let's say it resulted in a degenerate case... JPz 4-5 changed position in the tree. Two Soviet/Russian tanks were added with prefix "cn_", so I added them to USSR's tree.

After 1.75: France added. The reserve I selected is capable of destroying every French tank. The hardest ones are the Char B1 bis and ter. Their weakspot are in a cupola in the turret. Another tank with prefix "cn_" was added, but it crashes the game so I left it out. Changed Italy's plane because I now unlocked the one I wanted to use.

After 1.77: M1 Abrams! Not that I liked it... Other than that, I expected to be able to release this sooner, but at least now the sun is back to the zenith (not pictured) and the screenshots are better, in my opinion. Also, just now I realized it's been a few versions since I forgot to update a version number in this description, so I just removed it now.

After 1.83: Did not think that it would be possible to have even less free time than what I had, but here I am, sorry. Also, my CDK stopped working and Gaijin took quite a while to publish a new version, so that also left me a little less willing. Now that Italian tanks are coming in 1.85, I made some effort to get this up to date before that happens. And then, I'll try to not take so long to publish version 1.85 of this mission. Also, I finally changed my mind and included all files inside a folder inside the ZIP file, so you can safely "Extract here" and not have a mess. If you knew what you were doing before, it will take a few extra steps now, but safer is better at the end of the day.

After 1.85: Italy added, this time in full. Actually didn't took that long to release it this time!

After 1.87: Now that the tech trees are listed in full in the wiki, I've fixed the position of several vehicles.

After 1.89: Sorry for the delay. I actually updated this quite quickly, but taking the pictures took a little longer...

After 1.91: Sorry for the delay. I was in vacation but, despite the increase in free time, I had higher priorities to tend to. China added, but it's using USSR's plane because it's still in closed beta. Also, changed to use a cutscene in order to take the pictures. Using Ansel with FOV 10 was way too frustrating and exhausting because it lags and the minimal mouse movement makes the camera move by way too much. On the downside, resolution is lower. On the upside, taking pictures is now way faster.

After 1.93: What!? Another update already? C'mon Gaijin, think of my free time... Anyway, as per tradition, all new tanks can be taken out by the reserves. The AMX-30 ACRA was a tough nut to crack, but I managed when I realized the existence of an 8 mm piece of armor in a sloped part of the hull roof, behind the turret. Instant ammo rack. Also, China aviation is now open so I replaced the player controlled plane by the earliest Chinese bomber. 

After 1.95: Same feelings as last time. However, since Gaijin decided to Christmas rush an update, so I have Christmas rushed a new version of this user mission.

After 1.97: Sweden fully added.

I added the Combat Space Suits because, in the CDK, they are also "tankModels". Since they don't have a faction prefix like the others, I added a new "other" faction, as I believe there will be others in future April Fools events.

Sorry for the screenshots, but I don't know for what reason War Thunder started crashing when I was adjusting the camera position. I only managed to stop the crashing by setting the graphics quality to Medium @ 1920×1080. High @ 1280×720 was enough to cause it to crash. I hope that the patches that will be released until the next major update will fix this.

After 1.99: Sorry for the delay. I've been having even less free time during the pandemic, instead of more as a lot of people are saying.

Several vehicles not available for research have been removed from the game, mostly vehicles from previous April Fools' events, such as the walkers, the inflatable Sherman, the Combat Space Suits (consequently, the whole "other" "faction"), etc.

Also, several vehicles changed position within the tree, so I fixed some but I don't know whether there are more to fix. Next time maybe I'll take a better look into it.

Also also, some vehicles that were not included have been included. The reason is because their names have been added before their models. When I tried to add them to this mission, the mission crashed, so I added these names to an "ignore list". But their models eventually got implemented. I'll have to do something to check this "ignore list" on every update.

Regarding the issues I had with screenshots from last time, I managed to take the screenshots with graphics quality at Movie again, then my PC crashed after the very last one...

After 1.99.1.26: Now brought to you in a more timely manner, courtesy of the murder of sleep hours. Besides the announced tanks, several hidden tanks were also added. Most notably, two AT guns that behave exactly like tanks. That is, they have a damage model for their gun and crew and can be destroyed just like a proper tank. Also fixed some positions in a couple of trees.

After 1.101: Gaijin must have planned this update according to Brazilian's Independence Day to deny me the extra free time... Despite this, I couldn't finish it last week. Other than that, nothing interesting to comment on this one.

After 2.1: Was a reset necessary? Couldn't they continue with 1.103? Anyway, because of elections in Brazil, Black Friday and, as always, the extra time that the pandemic makes me lose, I couldn't release this version in a timely manner. But better late than never. At least now the screenshots have been taken in 4K using an Intel NUC8i7HNK! Some more positions fixed.

Also, yes, I know yet another War Thunder version has been released and I'm already 1 version too late. But this was almost completed when the new version came so I decided to finish it and release it. I'll finally have vacations after Christmas so I'll release the next version then.

After 2.3: Here it is.

After 2.5: Wow, that's a lot of vehicles to add at once! I sacrificed 2 half nights of sleep to get this done in a more timely manner. I also reorganized some trees a bit since some tanks have been moved around.

After 2.7: this update caught me in a really bad time. On top of that, I had a power outage when I was working on it. That's why it was delayed this much.

This update removed several vehicles that weren't normally part of the tech trees. However, it added another that doesn't belong to any, just like the Combat Space Suits of the previous April's Fools: space_rocket_launcher. I have no idea what it is. I tried to add it to a mission but the vehicle doesn't load. I get an error message saying: sdi_hydra pack hasn't been downloaded yet. I wonder.

All new additions can be destroyed by each tree starters, as usual, but a few stood out. The Japanese M47 could only be penned by the side, on those protusions on the side of the turret.

As I was taking the screenshots I realized some tanks were being rendered with a smaller LOD (level of detail). Maybe my computer can't cope with rendering all tanks at the highest LOD and in 4K. I've lost enough time already so I'll fix it in the next version. I'll probably have to use a lower resolution, though.

After 2.9: I actually had enough free time to do this quicker this time, but I failed to plan myself properly so it was delayed.

Another special vehicle was added, an unarmed BTR 152. Also, I've updated some positions in the tech trees.

The screenshots are still containing vehicles at lower LODs. I forgot I had already decided to lower the resolution for the screenshots. Will do that on the next one, if I remember.

After 2.11: Late again. This time I wasn't in the mood to do it sooner. You can see a vehicle that was used in this year's Halloween event in China's tech tree. Screenshots now taken at lower resolutions. Still, some vehicles are being rendered at lower LODs. I don't know what to do about it.

Also, something happened with the description for the Ground Forces mission which overwrote it with the description for the Ground Attack mission. I have no idea what I wrote previously so I wrote something new.

After 2.13: Late again, I'm sorry. Got caught up in end of the year activities. I made a test and took the screenshots with the graphics on "Low". Still some vehicles are rendered at lower LODs.

Anyway, Israel has been added. Because I couldn't use the same parameters as I use to take the screenshots of the other tech trees I took a different one. Also, fixed the position on the tech tree of some vehicles.

After 2.15: Late again. One day I had to work overtime. The other days I simply had higher priority stuff do to. Israel now have its full tech tree. As it doesn't start at rank I, I used the default starter that I always use, the BT-5. As usual, all tanks have a weak spot somewhere and can be destroyed by it, although some non top tier ones were quite difficult to do so. Some other repositionings as it's becoming usual.

After 2.17: Missed an update again. I had a holiday when this update was released but I had higher priority stuff to do which caused the middle priority stuff to accumulate and I have been trying to do these things ever since...

Tests with the new vehicles: the Elefant took several APCR shots to the back, and only in a small line where it penetrated, to be destroyed by loss of crew. The IS-2 No.321 could only be penned in the wedge in the rear armor, and all that is does is destroy the transmission. The T-72 Moderna required several shots to the turret roof to be destroyed.

After 2.19: Missed an update again. It's a shame, but maybe that's how it has to be. The most interesting thing in this update (actually it may be from 2.21) is the addition of a Soyuz rocket. Actually it was added in 2.15, but then it simply looked like a Flakpanzer I. In one of the last updates they must've updated its model to include the actual rocket. It's weird in that it doesn't render depending on how you look at it and doesn't render at all in the CDK.

Also very interesting is the addition of a locomotive and 2 box cars. They are not added to any nation's tech tree, but they are ground vehicles like all others. Only the locomotive, though, has a crew member, and it will get destroyed if he's killed, with fire and a custom damage model to boot.

The other box cars require explosives to be destroyed. One of them stops shells while the other does not. Shots just go straight through.

Because of these atypical additions I've restored the tech tree for vehicles that don't belong to any tech tree. The Soyuz technically is a German vehicle because it's called "germ_launcher_vertical" but it breaks the screenshot so I've separated it from the rest of the German vehicles.

As for the regular tanks added, the Object 248 was the toughest to destroy. I managed to land a lucky shot in the side from behind that exploded its ammo.

Also, because there are now 11 "tech trees" and WT Live limits posts to 10 images, I've grouped some tech trees screenshots in order to fit everyone.

After 2.21: several models from previous April Fools' events came back because they're displayed in the hangar. Just in time too, as I previously created an "other" tech tree where they will fit right in. They are the Combat Space Suits, the tank from the Dune event, the stealth tank, the inflatable Sherman and the bipedal tank (mecha). The Combat Space Suits, however, don't render when playing the mission.

Also, the remote controlled mine that is used in the Sturmtiger event has been placed there as well. And the Churchill Crocodile's fuel trailer is treated as a separate model. It's funny because the Churchill Crocodile's model comes with the trailer, but only in the game, not in the CDK. Still, I'll leave it behind the tank that it belongs to.

And, do you remember the space_rocket_launcher? Now it works and it's just like the other Soyuz rocket, except that its base is a stealth tank.

I've made a huge effort to release this before the next update hits. I imagined they would release a new update before Christmas but I though they would skip this year because 2.21 (Fire and Ice) was released about 6 weeks after 2.19 (Drone Age). I really hope this doesn't become a trend...

After 2.23: this time I missed releasing this before the next update. I've lost all hope of being able to do this on a timely manner as I just have too much on my plate. But I'm stubborn so I'll keep releasing it, no matter how delayed. Apart from that, nothing exceptional to report. Except that the mission for the "Other" tech tree is complaining about not having an "sdi_hydra" pack installed. Just wait and the mission will load.

After 2.25: Now also complaining about a "pgz_88" pack. The Char 2C took quite a beating, but still can be knocked out by the French reserve.

After 2.27: This time, I actually managed to update this mission only one week after the update went live. I hope I can keep this up. Also, besides the fact it's still complaining about that pack, there are two tank models that are not rendering in the game. Nothing shows up, not even a name or a target. They are the Chinese cn_vt_4 and the Swedish Stridsvagn Sherman III/IV (sw_sherman_3_4).

After 2.29: Late one week because of way too many social events at once and late another week because I got sick. Then catching up with all the tree reorganizing that they did took a lot of time. At least I found out that the French AML-90 was missing from my files for some reason. I had to lose some time (or rather, invest it) to build some more tools to make it possible to keep up with all of the tree changes. At least this should save me some time for the next updates. Then I got another slew of social events. Then I got COVID-19... At least I managed to avoid it when I was more dangerous and I actually got some more time due to quarantine. Missed releasing this before the next update by very little. Other than this, nothing interesting to note.

After 2.31: On the other hand, the version for this update has been done on the same day. I did save a lot of time with the last tools that I made, but also lost some time because all of those event-only vehicles came back. And they will probably go away again in the next update... Some train wagons have been added that I do not remember from before. Also, one of the Soyuz rockets is looking weird. It looks like they made several copies of it and placed them on a line really close to each other. Go figure. The Combat Space Suits are still not rendering, though (they show up in the CDK).

The last oddity is the biggest of them all. One of the train wagons that have been added is called "railway_ diesel_locomotive_te1". No, that's not a typo: there's a space in the name. And the mission works with it, except it doesn't render. I tested removing the space but that's when the game didn't recognize it. Other than that, no surprises for the new vehicles.

After 2.33: I delayed this one until I was on vacation. Gaijin changed some stuff in the wiki which caused another small delay. As expected, most of the April's Fools vehicles were removed. Also, they fixed the "railway_diesel_locomotive_te1". Now there's no space in the name.

Only the Italian "Tigris" took a little longer to defeat with reserve tanks. I had to aim at the roof of the engine compartment, right at the edge with the right side. There it was possible to set it on fire. The Challenger 3 TD also took some beating before biting it.

After 2.35: I must be sounding repetitive by now but this must be the moment when I had the least amount of free time that I can remember. I have a lot of stuff from more than a month ago that piled up to be done. Despite of that, I almost managed to release this version without so much delay. I invested some time to develop some tools to save time but I had some issues in that process that made me lose some time.

Personal issues aside, in Germany, the Vilkas now has been assigned a position in the tree. Other than that, nothing else worth mentioning.

After 2.37: I made an effort to get this done as soon as possible this time. The Germany, UK, US and USSR trees had lots of vehicles switch places. The Kungstiger was surprisingly easy to destroy with Sweden's reserve: either it can be set alight from the rear or its crew members can be knocked out through the turret ring.

After 2.39: This couldn't have arrived at a worse time, as I have months of pending work to do but, whatever, let's go. At least I managed to finish it in record time.

Something weird: the us_m36b2 is no longer listed in the CDK for placement. However, you can still play a mission with it (either as you or as another player/PC). It used to be that the vehicles that could be placed in the CDK directly corresponded to the vehicles that are in the game, such that when you tried to play with a vehicle that has been removed, the game would crash. For example, the April's Fools vehicles. When they're no longer in the CDK and you try to play with them, the game crashes. When there's an event where they're back, you can select them again in the CDK. After the event, comes an update and they're gone. Which is why it's weird that the us_m36b2 is no longer in the CDK but still is in the game. It's still in the Wiki as well. That's a first.

After 2.41: Same as before. Except this time I had some tasks which had very high priority and a very short deadline so I had to leave War Thunder for later. When I finally started working on it, I saw that they updated the CDK and I no longer can use my method to extract the list of vehicles from it. Not only that, but they also updated the wiki and I also could no longer use my method to extract the tech trees from it. So I worked to fix these things but I saw that there was another update planned for Soon™. I'll probably have to do both of them at once.

So far, I saw that they added again several vehicles from past April's Fools events and also lots of new trains. Lots of regular vehicles were added. I wonder what will they leave for the next update...

After 2.43: As I imagined, I could not finish the last one in time. Interesting that all of the event vehicles added in the last update were removed again. Also, 2 regular vehicles that were removed in the previous update were re-added in this one. And, astonishingly, lots of new regular vehicles were added in this update as well. More and more looking like they are trying to wear me down...

There's an us_m4a2_1944_germ that appeared in Germany's tree but I had previously added to US's tree due to how it was named. This is an exception that I only discovered now and didn't handle previously. My mistake, I'm sorry.

Also, China's cn_pgz_88 can no longer be included in the missions. Previously, the game would complain about a pack not being downloaded but, if the Exit button was not clicked, it would load the mission anyway. Now, it doesn't load the mission. However, clicking on Exit doesn't close the game either, keeping the game forever on the loading screen. Because of this I had to remove it. Fixing this caused the same issue to happen for the cn_vt_4, so I had to remove it as well.

For the "Other" missions, half of the event vehicles that remained have been included in the "sdi_hydra" pack, so they no longer can be included in missions: sdi_hydra, sdi_harpy, sdi_minotaur and space_rocket_launcher. The rest can still be included in missions: Goliath 303a, destroyer_heavy_tank_h, germ_launcher_vertical, us_m4_sherman_fake and ussr_sht_1_2. However, the destroyer_heavy_tank_h, the us_m4_sherman_fake and the ussr_sht_1_2 no longer render and can't be targeted anymore.

After 2.45: The French M46 required a lot of beating from several angles from France's starter in order to be destroyed. Apart from that, nothing notable about this update.

After 2.47: First thing I noticed was that some vehicles came in pairs, with "_launcher" appended at the end of one of them. This I expected, as I skimmed through the release notes in-game.

Second thing I noticed was some other vehicles that came in pairs, these with "_event" appended at the end of one of them. As it has been a long while since I haven't been able to keep up with the game news, I have no idea what they're for.

Third thing I noticed was some vehicles named after weapons. I'm yet to find out what they're for.

Fourth thing I noticed was some vehicles with "_kit_3rank" appended at the end of them. I strongly suspect I would know what they're if I had been following the news.

And the fifth and last thing I noticed was some USSR vehicles with "ai_sam" in their names. I strongly suspect they're for air base defense. Funny thing is that they can't be destroyed by bombs or small caliber ammo. Also, the missiles themselves have no hitbox and won't interact with shots fired at them.

A lot of new content in this update.

After 2.49: this one took me a while longer because I found issues in the tool I used to generate the list of tankModels in the game: some items were missing and others were duplicated. So I finally had to create my own tool and other tools to ensure nothing was lost during all this time when I was using a faulty tool. Surprisingly, it seems like this is the first update when the tool failed. Well, it won't fail anymore. As for the rest, nothing exceptional.

After 2.51: this caught me in a really bad time. I had several layers of accumulated tasks, with a veritable mix between short, mid and long-term. My vacations were not enough to get started with organizing myself. But I think I've managed to prioritize my tasks better and it has been stabilizing.

Now, for the update itself, I noticed several props added as vehicles, like destroyed units and train cars. The destroyed units won't spawn, and some even throw an error message, although the mission still loads. But I'll keep them out of the missions, there's no point in keeping them in.

One thing I found funny was about one of these props, in the UK tech tree: the Rapier SAM. It can be destroyed normally by tank shots. But it can't be destroyed by machine gun fire or smaller bombs. It did got destroyed by the FAB-5000, though.

#GuiRitter #groundattack #ground_attack #ground #attack #attacker #bomber #tanks #mission #usermission #user_mission